# Quality of Education and Income Level
Comparing the level of income compared to the level of education of each individual. 
## Introduction
  
  The demand for higher skilled workers has significantly increased over the years and education seems like the proper path for us to satisfy this need.  Education can lead to a multitude of opportunities such as securing a higher income, developing better problem solving skills and improving the overall economy.  It’s also very hard to pinpoint the exact value of education.  However, income can be very exact and a study by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2017 showed that earnings steadily rose from “less than a high school diploma” to “Doctoral degree” for people 25 years or older.  Education overall has shown to be vital for our labor force due to the everneed for more workers.  Post-secondary education has been proven to help find that elusive first job because college educated workers have lower unemployment rates and higher wages (annually) then their less educated counterparts.  
  
  However, one of the biggest issues with the Economic wage benefits after college is that student loans to pay for college could erase these benefits.  This can have a compound effect which could delay a person from getting married, saving for retirement or even providing for their children.  Some parents and students stray away from college due to these risks of debt which could leave them burdened for many years.  Alternatives can include apprenticeships or entering the job force right away and working their way up from there.  This can be a long and hard process but could reap the benefits of a lot of saved cash.  Also although attaining a degree can put you ahead of many applicants, the job market is still extremely competitive.  It is not necessarily a guarantee that you will get a job after college which makes it even more of a prospect that many people would not like to pursue.  
  
  There are about 5,300 colleges and universities in the USA showing how this country has taken the route that skilled workers will not only help individuals but the country’s economy as a whole.  Higher education has led to long term financial stability, improves their overall skills and low unemployment rates.  This is why we decided to focus on the USA, most notably by state, to see how each differs and to see if we can find significant findings.
  
  So we decided to do it state by state in the United States to answer the following question: How does educational attainment affect the level of income of an individual?  We want to see if education truly has a significantly positive impact on Income level.
  
  With the USA having a strong culture of secondary education in this country it will be interesting to see if this sort of model is something other countries should follow.  This will show us if investments in education are vital for the Income increases in other societies.
